README.md, before:

# Sprint Challenge: Hash Tables

**Read these instructions carefully. Understand exactly what is expected _before_ starting this Sprint Challenge.**

This challenge allows you to practice the concepts and techniques learned over the past sprint and apply them in a concrete project. This sprint explored hash tables. During this sprint, you studied hash functions, collision resolution, complexity analysis of hash tables, load factor, resizing, and various use cases for hash tables. In your challenge this week, you will demonstrate mastery of these skills by solving five problems related to hash tables.

The sprint challenge is an individual assessment. All work must be your own. Your challenge score is a measure of your ability to work independently using the material covered through this sprint. You need to demonstrate proficiency in the concepts and objectives introduced and practiced in preceding days.

You are not allowed to collaborate during the sprint challenge. However, you are encouraged to follow the twenty-minute rule and seek support from your TL if you need direction.

_You have **three hours** to complete this challenge. Plan your time accordingly._

## Introduction

This challenge requires you to solve algorithm problems that are amenable to being solved efficiently with a hash table.

### Commits

Commit your code regularly and meaningfully. This practice helps both you (in case you ever need to return to old code for any number of reasons) and your Team Lead as they evaluate your solution.

## Interview Questions

Be prepared to demonstrate your understanding of this week's concepts by answering questions on the following topics. You might prepare by writing down your answers beforehand.

1. Hashing functions
2. Collision resolution
3. Performance of basic hash table operations
4. Load factor
5. Automatic resizing
6. Various use cases for hash tables

We expect you to be able to answer questions in these areas. Your responses contribute to your Sprint Challenge grade.

## Instructions

### Task 1: Project Set-Up

- [ ] Create a forked copy of this project
- [ ] Add your team lead as a collaborator on Github
- [ ] Clone your OWN version of the repository (Not Lambda's by mistake!)
- [ ] Create a new branch: git checkout -b `<firstName-lastName>`.
- [ ] Implement the project on your newly created `<firstName-lastName>` branch, committing changes regularly
- [ ] Push commits: git push origin `<firstName-lastName>`

### Task 2: Project Requirements

Your finished project must include all of the following requirements:

- [ ] Solve any three of the five problems

For each problem that you choose to solve, complete the following:

- [ ] Navigate into each exercise's directory
- [ ] Read the instructions for the exercise in the README
- [ ] Implement your solution in the `.py` skeleton file
- [ ] Make sure your code passes the tests running the test script with make tests

*Note: For these exercises, we expect you to use Python's built-in `dict` as a hashtable. That said, if you wish, you can attempt to solve using your own hashtable implementation, as well. All solutions should utilize a `dict` or hashtable. You should not use Sets. (Though you can make a `dict` behave like a set if you wish.)*

### Task 3: Stretch Goals

After finishing your required elements, you can push your work further. These goals may or may not be things you have learned in this module, but they build on the material you just studied. Time allowing, stretch your limits, and see if you can deliver on the following optional goals:

- [ ] Solve any four of the five problems
- [ ] Solve all five problems

## Submission format

Follow these steps to complete your project.

- [ ] Submit a Pull-Request to merge <firstName-lastName> Branch into master (student's  Repo). **Please don't merge your own pull request**
- [ ] Add your team lead as a reviewer on the pull-request
- [ ] Your team lead will count the project as complete after receiving your pull-request

Commit message:

Added notes for hashing functions and collision resolution

README.md, after:

# Sprint Challenge: Hash Tables

**Read these instructions carefully. Understand exactly what is expected _before_ starting this Sprint Challenge.**

This challenge allows you to practice the concepts and techniques learned over the past sprint and apply them in a concrete project. This sprint explored hash tables. During this sprint, you studied hash functions, collision resolution, complexity analysis of hash tables, load factor, resizing, and various use cases for hash tables. In your challenge this week, you will demonstrate mastery of these skills by solving five problems related to hash tables.

The sprint challenge is an individual assessment. All work must be your own. Your challenge score is a measure of your ability to work independently using the material covered through this sprint. You need to demonstrate proficiency in the concepts and objectives introduced and practiced in preceding days.

You are not allowed to collaborate during the sprint challenge. However, you are encouraged to follow the twenty-minute rule and seek support from your TL if you need direction.

_You have **three hours** to complete this challenge. Plan your time accordingly._

## Introduction

This challenge requires you to solve algorithm problems that are amenable to being solved efficiently with a hash table.

### Commits

Commit your code regularly and meaningfully. This practice helps both you (in case you ever need to return to old code for any number of reasons) and your Team Lead as they evaluate your solution.

## Interview Questions

Be prepared to demonstrate your understanding of this week's concepts by answering questions on the following topics. You might prepare by writing down your answers beforehand.

1. Hashing functions

- A hash function is a function that maps keys to values. The values returned by hash functions are used to index a table of a fixed size, known as a hash table. This index is calculated by the hash function with the key as our input % the capacity of our hashtable.

2. Collision resolution

- When two items are hashed to the same position, we have to have a method to place the second item in our hash table. This is known as collission resolution. The method used this week is known as `separate chaining` (with LinkedLists).

3. Performance of basic hash table operations
4. Load factor
5. Automatic resizing
6. Various use cases for hash tables

We expect you to be able to answer questions in these areas. Your responses contribute to your Sprint Challenge grade.

## Instructions

### Task 1: Project Set-Up

- [ ] Create a forked copy of this project
- [ ] Add your team lead as a collaborator on Github
- [ ] Clone your OWN version of the repository (Not Lambda's by mistake!)
- [ ] Create a new branch: git checkout -b `<firstName-lastName>`.
- [ ] Implement the project on your newly created `<firstName-lastName>` branch, committing changes regularly
- [ ] Push commits: git push origin `<firstName-lastName>`

### Task 2: Project Requirements

Your finished project must include all of the following requirements:

- [ ] Solve any three of the five problems

For each problem that you choose to solve, complete the following:

- [ ] Navigate into each exercise's directory
- [ ] Read the instructions for the exercise in the README
- [ ] Implement your solution in the `.py` skeleton file
- [ ] Make sure your code passes the tests running the test script with make tests

*Note: For these exercises, we expect you to use Python's built-in `dict` as a hashtable. That said, if you wish, you can attempt to solve using your own hashtable implementation, as well. All solutions should utilize a `dict` or hashtable. You should not use Sets. (Though you can make a `dict` behave like a set if you wish.)*

### Task 3: Stretch Goals

After finishing your required elements, you can push your work further. These goals may or may not be things you have learned in this module, but they build on the material you just studied. Time allowing, stretch your limits, and see if you can deliver on the following optional goals:

- [ ] Solve any four of the five problems
- [ ] Solve all five problems

## Submission format

Follow these steps to complete your project.

- [ ] Submit a Pull-Request to merge <firstName-lastName> Branch into master (student's  Repo). **Please don't merge your own pull request**
- [ ] Add your team lead as a reviewer on the pull-request
- [ ] Your team lead will count the project as complete after receiving your pull-request
